#Solar Roadways – Canada edition

##Team name: 

Associate Awesomeness

##Team members:
-          Cameron McEvenue (cmcevenue@esri.ca)
-          Hayleigh Conway (hconway@esri.ca)
-          Shannon Cox (scox@esri.ca)

##Open the App:
See instructions below for link.
##Synopsis
We created a custom Operations Dashboard widget to calculate the approximate amount of energy that would be generated by a road if it were completely replaced with interlocking, energy-producing, super cool solar panels!The inspiration for this application is from a project called Solar Roadways, which is currently being developed and tested in Idaho. It aims at replacing impermeable surfaces such as roads with interlocking solar panels to create more reusable energy and lower dependency on fossil fuels. Learn more here: http://www.solarroadways.com/intro.shtml

##Instructions 
A sample Operations Dashboard View has been published on Cameron’s ArcGIS Online account (cmcevenue_support) and is open to the public.To open the Operation View you must have an Organizational Account as well as Operations Dashboard Windows app installed on your computer. We have experienced some odd behaviour accessing the app from Chrome so I would ask that you paste the following URL in Internet Explorer to open the app.

https://www.arcgis.com/opsdashboard/OperationsDashboard.application?open=4080f0d6e6424460a4644f918b10d93f

The name of the Operations View is “Solar Roadways Operations Dashboard” and must be opened in the desktop Operations Dashboard application (custom widgets are not yet supported in the browser). The widget is hosted on the same AGOL account and is named “Solar Energy Calculator Operations Dashboard Widget” and can be added to any Operations View. The full solution for the widget has been provided.<br><br>
##Why Should We Win?
The Widget we created is simple and easy to use and can be configured with any road dataset feature service. In order to use the widget in a custom Operations View you simply need to add it as a custom add-in. The add-in file can be taken directly from Cameron's ArcGIS Online account at 'cmcevenue_support'. All you need is an ArcGIS Online Organizational Account which comes with any Basic License!<br><br>
With Greenhouse Gases causing irreversible damage to our climate the world is in need of a massive scale change. 
The Solar Roadways project is looking to get a foothold in North America through support of cities to demonstrate the capability of this technology. If adopted across North America the project could provide enough energy to provide electricity to the entire world (and this is based on conservative estimates!). Any of our clients with Organizational Accounts can view this application or use this widget. This could be a great promotional tool. Our Municipal clients can add in their own road data and see what this technology could do for their community. Hopefully we can open some eyes with this app as to how much energy can be created, how much money can be saved but more important how we can save our world!<br><br>
These are not the only benefits of solar roadways. After viewing our application please view the Solar Roadways site, check out there cool video and support the cause! Some of the additional benefits include:<br>
- **Renewable energy**:
 -  With 18.5% efficiency solar panels and an average of 4 peak daylight hours per day	
 -  With a 230 Watt solar panel = ~ 21 billion kilowatt hours per year (in the USA)
-  **Why waste so much space?**
 -  So much of the developed world is covered with asphalt and concrete (over 112,000 km2 in the United States alone - nearly 90,000 km2 after rooftops are accounted for)
 -  We could tranform this all into mass amount of solar energy!
 -  Paved surfaces absorb energy and heat cities. Let’s use this energy!
 -  Reduce fossil fuel consumption by elminating need for non-electrical based heating.
-  **Lowered costs for municipalities:**
 -  _**Roads free of snow/ice**_ – not only convenient, but also a huge money-saver for municipalities that invest significant amounts in snow plough equipment and personnel
 -  _**Sub-surface infrastructure**_ - great home for power/data lines
 -  Ability to treat/store/transport stormwater without the need for large ditches
-  **LED lighting benefits are multifaceted:**
 -  Adaptable road lines according to traffic conditions
 -  Safer nighttime driving
 -  Improved traffic and road condition monitoring
 -  Warnings for drivers about accidents/dangers/traffic






##How was this awesome app made?
 
 The customized widget was created using the ArcGIS Runtime SDK for WPF for Operations Dashboard. The sample widgets provided with the ArcGIS Runtime SDK for WPF were reviewed to achieve an understanding of developing custom add-ins for Operations Dashboard. In our sample application, we used a GTA road dataset retrieved from GeoBase.<br><br>
The app can be configured to use with any numeric field in a Feature Service, but is purposed to be used with a length field of a Simple Line Feature Service. In order to be used with more datasets we assumed a 2 lane width for all roads in our dataset, as we wanted users without access to Lane data to be able to use the widget.




